# Trends.Earth 

[![Trends.Earth](https://s3.amazonaws.com/trends.earth/sharing/trends_earth_logo_bl_600width.png)](http://trends.earth)

[![Build 
Status](https://travis-ci.org/ConservationInternational/trends.earth.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ConservationInternational/trends.earth)

`Trends.Earth` (formerly the Land Degradation Monitoring Toolbox) is a tool for 
monitoring land change. `Trends.Earth` is a [QGIS](http://www.qgis.org) plugin 
that supports monitoring of land change, including changes in productivity, 
land cover, and soil organic carbon. The tool can support monitoring land 
degradation for reporting to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and United 
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), as well as tracking 
progress towards achievement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) target 15.3, 
Land Degradation Neutrality (LDN).

`Trends.Earth` was produced as an output of the GEF-funded project [“Enabling 
the use of global data sources to assess and monitor land degradation at 
multiple scales”](http://vitalsigns.org/gef-ldmp). The project aims to provide 
guidance on robust methods and a tool for assessing, monitoring status, and 
estimating trends in land degradation using remote sensing technology.

The Land Degradation Monitoring Project is a collaboration of Conservation
International, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and
Lund University.

## Documentation

See the [user guide](http://trends.earth/docs/en) for information on how to use 
the plugin.

## Installation

### Stable version

The easiest way to install the plugin is from within QGIS, using the [QGIS 
plugin repository](http://plugins.qgis.org/plugins/LDMP/). However, It is also 
possible to install the plugin manually from a zipfile, which can be useful to 
access an old version of the plugin, or to install the plugin without internet. 
Instructions for both of these possibilities are below.

#### Stable version from within QGIS (recommended)

The easiest way to install the plugin is from within QGIS, using the [QGIS 
plugin repository](http://plugins.qgis.org/plugins/LDMP/).

#### Stable version from zipfile

Download a stable version of `Trends.Earth` from
[the list of available releases on 
GitHub](https://github.com/ConservationInternational/trends.earth/releases).

Extract the `LDMP.zip` file you donwloaded into the python plugins folder for 
your installation of QGIS. For example, if you are using Windows and your 
username is "azvol", then this might be `C:\Users\azvol\.qgis2\python\plugins`. 
If you are using a Mac and your username is "azvol", then this might be
`/Users/azvol/.qgis2/python/plugins`.

Once you are finished, you should have a folder named "LDMP" within your 
`.qgis2/python/plugins` folder.

Start QGIS, and click on "Plugins" then "Manage and install plugins". In the 
plugins window that appears, click on "Installed", and then make sure there is 
a check in the box next to "Land Degradation Monitoring Tool". The plugin is 
now installed and activated. Click "Close", and start using the plugin.


### Development version

If you are interested in using the development version of the plugin, with the 
very latest (but not as well tested) features, or in contributing to the 
development of it, you will want to install the development version. There are 
two ways to install the development version:

* Using a packaged version (zipfile)

* Cloning the github repository and installing from that code

It is easier to install the plugin from a zipfile than from github, so this 
option is recommended unless you are interested in contributing to development 
of the plugin.

#### Installing latest packaged development version

Download [the latest `Trends.Earth` 
zipfile](https://s3.amazonaws.com/trends.earth/sharing/LDMP.zip).

Extract `LDMP.zip` to the python plugins folder for your installation of QGIS. 
For example, if you are using Windows and your username is "azvol", then this 
might be `C:\Users\azvol\.qgis2\python\plugins`. If you are using a Mac and 
your username is "azvol", then this might be
`/Users/azvol/.qgis2/python/plugins`.

Once you are finished, you should have a folder named "LDMP" within your 
`.qgis2/python/plugins` folder.

Start QGIS, and click on "Plugins" then "Manage and install plugins". In the 
plugins window that appears, click on "Installed", and then make sure there is 
a check in the box next to "Land Degradation Monitoring Tool". The plugin is 
now installed and activated. Click "Close", and start using the plugin.

#### Installing the very latest code from github

Open a terminal window and clone the latest version of the repository from 
Github:

```
git clone https://github.com/ConservationInternational/trends.earth
```

Navigate to the root folder of the newly cloned repository, and install 
`paver`, a tool that assists with installing the plugin:

```
pip install paver
```

Now run the setup task with `paver` to pull in the external dependencies needed 
for the project:

```
paver setup
```

Once `paver setup` has run, you can install the plugin using paver:

```
paver install
```

If you modify the code, you need to run `paver install` to update the installed 
plugin in QGIS. You only need to rerun `paver setup` if you change or update 
the plugin dependencies. After reinstalling the plugin you will need to restart 
QGIS or reload the plugin. Install the "Plugin reloader" plugin if you plan on 
making a log of changes (https://github.com/borysiasty/plugin_reloader).

## License

`Trends.Earth` is free and open-source. It is licensed under the GNU General 
Public License, version 2.0 or later.
